Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to get our lamp base looking that much better.
Now in the previous section we were working on low poly it's time to move on from that.
Now the opposite of low poly isn't unnecessarily high geometry just making a high poly for the sake
of it.
It's all to do with making sure that it appears nice and smooth and has the appropriate level of detail.
Let's go back to before this and find out more.
Okay so this is what it was looking like before you can see it's quite jagged around the edge here.
It's pretty detailed on the way of the profile and how it's moving down.
And as we tinker with things we may have to go backwards and forwards to the profiles to just change
how it's looking.
So the first thing I'm going to encourage you to do is look at your model in wireframe mode.
It's going give us an idea of the vertical and horizontal nature of the mesh and we can see straightaway
it's not even the lines that come down our model.
They're just not of the same quality as the ones going around.
You can see the ones going around our model are much more numerous.
So we're gonna get a lot smoother geometry going down our model and not that much going round which
is why it looks jagged and smooth at the same time.
Now the way that we change those is by going into our curve data and adjusting the resolution.
Now the vertical ones here are driven by this curve itself.
The lamp base path.
So if I set that 12 we should get a much smoother object and the same is true with the profile.
Now what we really want to do is make sure that these bits of geometry are roughly even.
Now they start off small and get larger so they can't be exact but providing that the entire surface
is pretty even going around.
That is a good state to be in what is not necessarily a good state to be in is having it look like that's
where we've got two bits running around here and that's it.
So you can see here.
The other thing to bear in mind is at a certain point you lose the shape that you intended.
So this resolution is no good would have to increase increase increase until we get to the right shape
that we want.
And as I said you may have to go back into the profile shape and tweak it so you get what you want.
Now one way of making things high poly without making them high poly is to lower the resolution of everything
to a reasonable amount.
Let's go for enforcing.
We can see that's quite low poly almost back to where we were.
The chess scene if we went and shaded it flat.
Yes sir.
It's just a bit more detailed.
But what we can do is we can go to our modifiers tab and add a modifier which is a subdivision surface
and you can see here how that low poly very quickly set it back to shades move becomes high poly again
but we've lost that level hump there.
So this is where we might have to go back to our profile and adjust its accordingly.
And with that in mind it's time for your challenge and your challenge is to tweak your curve profile
and curve resolutions and get a good balance between the two.
So we end up with a good topology a good set of geometry across our model and what we're aiming for
is to use as little of that geometry as possible and then use a subsurface modifier to increase the
detail amount.
And as you're doing this don't be afraid to go back and forwards tweaking the curve resolution the curve
profile to get the shape you want pause the video now and give that a go
Hello everybody and welcome back.
Let's hop on over into blender and get our lamp base looking pretty high Polly.
OK.
So we left off here before.
Now I'm going to crank up the actual subdivisions to three and I'm going to see what I can do with much
lower geometry.
Go back to our curves now as we can see here a certain point is actually shrinking our lamps so we'd
have to make things bigger if we tried to do that.
But we can probably oh I don't know about this let's go to wireframe Yeah we can definitely go all the
way down to two on this one with three subdivisions we can go down to two but it's significantly smaller
than it was when we started.
So what we need to do is have a good idea of where we're going to.
Which is around here a couple of ways that you can mark on here but I'm just going to put the 3d cursor
there then I know when we're back down at 2 I can scale up to the right place apply that scale that's
important.
Let's have a look at the profile resolution and we can look down on this to work out how even we can
make it.
So at one that's about right.
But we lose this little indent can we adjust our lamp profile to have that make some sense.
I don't think we can because looking at this there's only one two three four points in the entire thing.
It's pretty straight.
So we need to increase that's a little.
And I think we're going to need at least that's to get there.
And what we can do is really exaggerate this by dragging the handle.
Oh I've hidden it very easy to do alternates to bring that back.
Select the handle and look at it from the top and just move it all the way across to make that much
more extreme turn.
Let's have a look.
Are our objects.
Yes looking pretty good.
Now I am going to go g here X and move it along as well because what's all of that has done as it's
pushed it slightly out.
Let's have a look at this.
In rendered mode.
Yes that looks much better it's well-defined.
Might be a little steep actually now that I've done that to it.
Let's have a closer look remember and to turn back to selection mode.
Yeah I'd say that was probably just a little bit too steep and this is all about your artistic decisions
at this point in time and I can pretty much see that that's probably too too steep if we have a look
at it let's go back into wireframe.
Yes and I think that just stems here from this handle here.
I can obviously push it and make it really steep but it stems from a mixture of this handle here and
this one here.
If I keep it at this angle but just move it so it's a shorter handle.
We should get less of a horrible transition.
Yes.
That's much better.
And that's really really subjective.
It does depend what you're trying to work on.
Let's make sure we've got the selected circle orbits around it.
There we go.
Pretty good.
Let's focus on here.
Yes I'm happy with that.
One of the things you do have to watch for is if you've got two little geometry running around here
which I don't think we do.
If you subdivide it it can end up a less circular.
And it does look fine from above.
So I'm happy with that.
What have we got in total 9000 now.
Common sense here would say that 9000 is a little bit on the high side for just the base of our lamp.
It's not that detailed either.
So I'm gonna go into here and turn down the subdivisions that we've got
and see if that's enough.
So we're down to 2000.
It does look pretty smooth still.
If I turn the actual outline off by just selecting something else or moving away you can see that it
still is a little bit jagged.
So I'm going to go back to the drawing board a little bit here is these vertical ones so we need to
make sure that we've got the path selected and just increase that by one or two for two there were back
to around 4000 not quite as high as before.
Gonna have to shrink that back down to how it should have been before.
Which I think's about there.
I did move the 3d cursor.
Let's bring our lamp back in and check.
Scale that back up to the right size height that away again.
Okay.
Yes.
That looks much better and I'm happy with that number of triangles.
Now later on.
Incidentally we will learn about things like normal mapping so that won't be till the next section.
But what we could do at this point is bake for normals of how this looks and put that map onto a lower
poly version of this and then it will look smooth.
The only thing we've still got to watch out for is the edge and it's inclusion because the moment you
move round to the side you start seeing those jagged edges again.
So that's the difficulty just making sure it still looks nice and circular.
And obviously the rest of the geometry is driven from that.
So that's what we've got.
Okay.
Brilliant.
Please share your lamp bases over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.